this is the story of a primo water
bottle it starts as a humble American
grown crop and makes its way that the
nature Works facility here in Blair
Nebraska inside through the miracle of
Science and Technology these simple
plants begin their transformation into
primo water bottles
hi I'm Jana and here we are at the
state-of-the-art nature works facility
the only commercial scale sized plant of
its kind in the world right here is
where they create in geo plastic which
will eventually be turned into primo
water bottles these bottles are made
from a natural plastic made from plants
unlike traditional plastic bottles made
from oil the bottles look and feel just
like other plastic water bottles but
there's so much better for the
environment they're made of renewable
and sustainable resources grown right
here in the USA
unlike PE tea plastics which are made
from crude oil a depleting and rare
resource that we often must get from
foreign countries here we are at the
Nature Works facility where they take
corn and turn it into NGO plastic to
make these renewable primo water bottles
and here we are with Kerry buckles hiya
Kerry
Kerry's the operation manager here could
you take us through the facility I'd be
glad to Jana let's go take a look
so Kari take us through the process from
when the corn comes in to when the NGO
pellets come out okay you know this
pellet starts as it starts with corn
entering the Cargill site here corn is
separated in into three components the
the oil fraction the starch fraction and
the protein fraction the starch fraction
of a corn kernel is then converted to a
family of sugars one of those sugars is
dextrose or glucose that raw material is
supplied to a facility where that
dextrose using fermentation processes is
converted into lactic acid lactic acid
is the basic raw material that's
supplied to this polymer process if we
convert it into to NGO pellet so this is
the final product these are the pellets
Kerry can you tell us why this is more
environmentally friendly than using
petroleum-based plastics the production
of this bio polymer uses 65 percent less
energy than a oil-based plastic and it
also generates 80 to 90 percent less
greenhouse gases in the production of
this bio-based Palmer what we have here
is the final product being packaged and
shipped ready for shipment to customers
these plastic pellets are made into what
they called free forms which then is
blown into these bottles returned Angela
three Moe plastic water bottles we're
now here at one of primo select
facilities where these bottles are
finally filled with you guessed it primo
water this is where they're filled with
primo water and labeled then they're
packed into cases and sent to stores
across the country like the grocery
store in your neighborhood the fact is
you can't help feeling good twice when
you know you're drinking great tasting
water in an environmentally friendly
bottle it's good for you and it's good
for the planet on the next episode we'll
visit an average family and see why they
and thousands of others prefer primo
water go ahead and watch the remaining
episodes to find out more it's really
cool